We are on our final week of our seek
first series based on Matthew 6:33 that
says, "But seek first the kingdom of God
and his righteousness and all these
things will be added to you." Across
this month, we have walked through the
pathway that shapes the heart of
liberty. Following Jesus, finding
freedom, discovering purpose, and making
a difference. Or as we often like to say
instead, we want to see the lost saved,
the saved freed, the freed discipled,
and the discipled sent. These four areas
are the movements of a transformed life.
When we go from being lost to being
saved, and then we learn to walk in our
freedom and we experience true
disciplehip and then we live sent on
mission in the world. That's when we are
living a truly completely transformed
life by Jesus.
And so today I want us to pick up that
final element of seeing the discipled
sent. What does it look like to be sent
to live sent into this world and to make
a difference? And we're going to start
by reading the scripture today. And I
want to encourage you to all stand as we
read the scripture because we believe
the Bible is the authoritative word of
God. And so we want to honor it and
respect it this morning. So let's stand
as we read Acts 8:26-4.
And it says this. Now an angel of the
Lord said to Philillip, "Rise and go
toward the south to the road that goes
down from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a
desert place." And he rose and went. And
there was an Ethiopian, a unic, a court
official of Candace, Queen of the
Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her
treasure. And he had come to Jerusalem
to worship and was returning seated in
his chariot. And he was reading the
prophet Isaiah.
And the spirit said to Philillip, "Go
over and join his chariot." So,
Philillip ran to him and heard him
reading Isaiah the prophet and asked,"Do
you understand what you are reading?"
And he said, "How can I unless someone
guides me?" And he invited Philillip to
come up and sit with him. Now the
passage of scripture that he was reading
was this. Like a sheep he was led to the
slaughter. And like a lamb before its
sheer is silent, so he opens not his
mouth. In his humiliation, justice was
denied him. Who can describe his
generation? For his life is taken away
from the earth. And the unic said to
Philillip, "About whom, I ask you, does
this prophet say this about himself or
about someone else?" Then Philillip
opened his mouth and beginning with this
scripture, he told him the good news
about Jesus. And as they were going
along the road, they came to some water.
And the unic said, "See, here is the
water. What prevents me from being
baptized?" And he commanded the chariot
to stop. And they both went down into
the water, Philillip and the unic. And
he baptized him. And when they came up
out of the water, the spirit of the Lord
carried Philillip away. And the unic saw
him no more and went on his way
rejoicing. But Philip found himself at
Azot Azotos and as he passed through he
preached the gospel to all the towns
until he came to Cesaria. Let me pray.
Heavenly Father, we thank you for your
word. We thank you that it speaks life
to us. And we pray this morning that you
would open our hearts to hear your words
this morning. What you want to speak to
us in Jesus name we pray. Amen.
Do take a seat.
This is a really interesting passage and
the first thing I'm going to say is
Philillip suddenly disappears. I don't
know why. I don't know how. God does.
That's all that matters this morning.
All right. We can look at that another
day. Ask your community group leader.
You can dive in deep. Uh good luck
community group leaders.
But before we unpack the passage today,
I really want to help you understand the
moment in time that we are living in
right now. Now, you've probably heard,
if you've been around a little bit,
Johnny or myself or others within the
church talk about what's being known as
the quiet revival.
Now, without hard facts, I can
understand that it can be quite easy to
be a little bit cynical and go, "Yeah,
whatever. You're just hoping this is the
case." But I want to show you this
morning some of the facts, some of the
evidence that this idea is based on
because it is based on evidence. It's
not a hunch or a feeling that we're just
having.
And it's based on serious evidence, too.
The statistics I'm about to show you
were not collected by a couple of
Christians that stood on the street
corner with a clipboard uh and asked
questions to passers by as they went
along. Instead, the Bible Society worked
with Yuggov, which is one of Britain's
largest research companies, which is an
agency that is quoted by the media, by
politicians, by researchers. And through
Yuggov, the Bible Society conducted a
survey in 2018 and again in 2024.
And the sample that was used for this
study was 19,000
people. and it was a nationally
representative sample. And to put that
into perspective, most surveys that you
will read about in the newspapers are
actually surveys that contain between
1,000 and 3,000 responses. So this shows
that this survey conducted by Yuggov on
behalf of the Bible society is
legitimate and representative of our
nation.
And what the data has shown is that the
decline in Christianity or churchgoing
has turned. That more people are now
attending church in 2024 than they were
in 2018. And more people are open to
faith and spirituality than before.
The data that came back in 2024 took the
Bible society by surprise. So much so
that they went to Yuggov and said, "Hey,
can we just have a conversation about
this?" Did something methodological
happen that would cause this spike?
Because we are surprised. And Yuggov
came back to them and confirmed that
nothing had happened methodological that
would have caused this spike, that this
spike was accurate and could be trusted.
And so what did the data actually say?
Well, it said that church attendance was
on the rise. Overall, church-going
Christians now make up 12% of the
population where they had made up only
8%. And to put that in numerical terms,
that's a jump from 3.7 million in 2018
to 5.8 million in 2024, which is an
increase of 56%.
In particular, in 2018, only 4% of 18 to
24 year olds said they attended church
at least monthly. Today, that has risen
to 16%.
And particularly among young men, young
men have jumped from 4% to 21%.
That is a huge increase in numbers.
This survey also showed that 31% of
non-churchgoers
would attend a church if they were
invited by a friend. 31%.
It also showed that over half of
non-churchgoers, so about 56% would be
happy for a Christian friend to pray for
them. And it showed that 18% said they
would in be interested in learning more
about the Bible. And again, that number
jumps drastically to 37%
for young people.
These are some incredible statistics
showing how the landscape in this
country when it comes to faith,
Christianity, the Bible, and church is
shifting.
The tide is turning. The decline has
stopped. But one of the concerns that
has been raised about the fact that
we've used or they've used the word
revival is that it sounds like God's
doing everything and we can just sit
back and relax and watch. But that is
not the case. If we want to see this
small uptick from decline to incline
continue on its upward trajectory, we
cannot sit back and take this moment for
granted.
Instead, there is everything to play for
and we have to play our part.
So now, what about the Philillip and the
Ethiopian unic? What does this story
teach us about how we can play our part
and make a difference and live sent in
this moment in time so that we can see
the lost saved, the saved freed, the
freed, and the discipled sent. And I
believe this story highlights three
important things. the Holy Spirit, the
word of God, and the human evangelist.
So, let's start by looking at the Holy
Spirit and how the Holy Spirit had a
role to play in this conversion account.
In verses 29 and 30, it says this, "And
the spirit said to Philillip, go over
and join this chariot." So, Philip ran
to him and heard him reading Isaiah the
prophet and asked, "Do you understand
what you are reading?"
We see that the spirit of God is playing
a moment and playing a part in this
conversion moment. The spirit had
prepared Philillip to be there in that
place at the time. And then the spirit
nudged him and spoke to him and said,
"Go over there to this chariot."
And so he went. But I also believe the
spirit probably encouraged him with what
question to ask. Now, Philillip could
have gone up to this chariot and gone,
"Hey, dude, your chariot is sick. This
is awesome. Can I have a ride?" He could
have gone and said, "Um, oh, I like that
verse that you're reading. It's a good
one, that one." Or he could have shown
off his knowledge and said, "Hey, is
that Isaiah 53 you're reading?" But he
didn't. He asked the one question that
was stirring deep in the Ethiopian's
heart. Do you understand what you are
reading? Because the Ethiopian had been
reading this going, what is this I'm
reading? Who is this about? What does it
mean? I don't understand. And the Philip
had gone pointed right at that exact
question. Do you understand what you are
reading? You see, Philillip was
sensitive to the Holy Spirit. And this
means two things. Firstly, it means he
was aware that the spirit wants to speak
to him. And secondly, it means he was
willing to be obedient to what the
spirit said. And we need to be just like
Philillip, too.
Did you know that if you are a follower
of Jesus, then you have the Holy Spirit
living within you? And God uses the Holy
Spirit to speak to us, to nudge us in
certain ways, to guide us, to give us
wisdom, to speak words and pictures and
dreams and even gut feelings to us.
I don't know about you, but I have never
heard the audible voice of God, but I
often hear an internal voice of God. And
more often than that, I actually get a
gut feeling from God. He uses my sort of
gut senses to speak to me. and through
my gut, he'll he'll give me a feeling
about a situation or through my gut
senses, I'll sense what God wants me to
do. But however it is that God speaks to
you, whether it's through your gut
feelings, whether it's through words or
pictures or dreams,
the first thing is we have to believe
that he wants to speak to us.
If we don't believe this, then we will
so often cancel out what God is saying
to us with doubts such as God didn't
mean that or I just thought that myself
that wasn't from God or God wouldn't
want me to speak to that person. If we
don't believe that God wants to speak to
us, then we will cancel out what he is
saying.
So firstly, in order to allow the Holy
Spirit room to speak to us, we have to
believe that he wants to speak to us and
he wants to use us in this moment.
I also don't believe that this moment
for Philillip was the first time the
Holy Spirit had spoken to him. I believe
that this moment was a moment that was
built on lots of past experience of God
speaking to him and him responding and
acting on the what he'd heard and then
him hearing again and him responding and
and I expect probably the more he heard
from God and responded the more he heard
from God and it felt like it was God
like the Holy Spirit the more we create
space in our lives to listen and create
opportunities in our lives to hear from
God the more that actually we'll grow in
confidence that what we are hearing
hearing is God. Not because the Holy
Spirit's got louder, but because our
doubts and distractions have actually
got quieter. Because we've suddenly
tuned in like a radio to what God is
saying.
But you also may have missed it, but I
said that, you know, Philillip acted on
what he heard. He was obedient to what
the spirit said, and we have to do that,
too.
The spirit spoke and Philillip ran over.
That's what the Bible says. Says the
spirit told him to go and he ran over.
He didn't,
you know, spend a while questioning if
this was God and whether I should go or
not and and and ask God seven times,
remind me, remind me, tell me again,
tell me again, tell me again. He didn't
go, okay, God, I'll go. and then slowly
walk like you're a tourist in London
across to to Philillip and hope that
Philip's gone by the time he got there.
He ran over. He was obedient.
Can you imagine for a moment if he
hadn't been
then the Ethiopian unic would have
carried on on his way confused by what
he was reading without knowing about
Jesus. He would have gone home and he
wouldn't have been the first witness of
Jesus to Africa.
Imagine if he hadn't been obedient to
what the spirit was saying. We need to
be more philillip. We need to grow in
our sensitivity to the Holy Spirit and
we need to grow in our obedience to what
the spirit is calling us to do.
Why don't you just turn to the person
next to you and tell them be more
philillip.
be more Phillip.
So the Holy Spirit played a critical
part in this conversion moment because
of speaking to Philillip. But I also
believe the Holy Spirit played a
critical part in the way that it
prepared the heart, the Ethiopian's
heart to receive the gospel message. And
this is what we want, right? We want the
people in our lives to be receptive and
ready and open to receive the good news
of the gospel. And the best way that we
can encourage this is to pray for them.
Who are you praying for right now that
isn't a follower of Jesus? Are you
praying that God would the spirit would
open their eyes and prepare their hearts
for the gospel message?
Each morning in my Bible study time, I
have like a list of prayer points that I
want to work through. And my the first
is my kids. So I pray for my kids and I
pray for the other kids in my life, my
nieces, nephews, god kids, friends,
kids, etc. I believe I desperately want
to see the next generation be a
generation that follows Jesus. And so I
cover them in prayer. Then I move on to
my next list of people, which is the
people in my life who do not follow
Jesus.
I pray for them every day
and I pray that the spirit would speak
to them and reveal himself to them and
transform their lives. My prayer is that
through my small prayers every day that
they are growing more and more receptive
to the gospel. And if I'm honest,
sometimes it can feel like it's taking a
long time, years even. But I tried to
trust that each prayer is making just a
small difference in their receptiveness.
And I'm believing that one day they
would be open to receive the gospel.
But there are also incredible stories of
people encountering Jesus just through
the Holy Spirit.
Just recently I've started listening to
a podcast and they shared a couple of
stories and I thought I'd share them
with you this morning. There's a young
man and he had reached the point of
ending his life. He'd had it. He was
done. And he was sitting on top of a
quarry ready to jump off when God spoke
to him
completely out of the blue, completely
unexpected, nothing he had ever
experienced before. But this voice said
to him, "This is not how your story
ends."
And in that moment, he suddenly knew God
was real and it was God that was
speaking to him. And so he got up and he
got down off the quarry and he walked
back home via a WH Smith, bought himself
a Bible, started reading it, gave his
life to Jesus, and started attending a
local church. How amazing, right?
Or there's a story about a young lady
who had a dream. And in this dream, she
felt God, who was someone she'd never
really believed in before, but suddenly
God was speaking to her in this dream
and told her to go and speak to a
colleague about going to church with
her. So the next day she wakes up and
she goes finds that colleague and uh at
that moment she discovers that colleague
is a Christian and a churchgoer. And so
she goes along with her this friend to
church because God had told her to and
she gives her life to Jesus. These are
just a few stories of how God and
through the Holy Spirit can intervene in
someone's life. And we want to be
praying for those moments. We want to be
praying for more of those moments for
our friends and our family members.
We need the spirit of God in this quiet
revival.
In order to see this small spike in the
data continue upwards, to see the
statistics increase, to see this city
saved, we need the spirit. We need the
spirit to prepare the hearts of those in
this city. We need the spirit to speak
to us, work in us, and through us so
that we might see the lost saved, the
saved, freed, the freed, discipled, and
the discipled sent.
Secondly, the word of God played a part
in this conversion story. The Ethiopian
unic was reading the book of Isaiah. It
says in verse 27, he had come to
Jerusalem to worship and was returning
seated in his chariot reading the
prophet Isaiah. He was reading the word
of God. And Philip then uses the
scriptures. It says in verse 35, "Then
Philip opened his mouth and beginning
with this scripture, he told him the
good news about Jesus."
The word of God has an important part to
play in seeing the lost saved. Why?
Because it is the word of God that
speaks truth, that speaks life, that
speaks love, that speaks redemption. It
is the word of God that brings clarity
to confusion. It is the word of God that
brings conviction when our hearts are
numb. It is the word of God that brings
comfort when grief has stolen our
breath. The word of God, it convicts and
cleanses.
It comforts us. It exposes what's
hidden.
It breaks lies and renews our mind. It
strengthens the soul and stirs the
weary. steadies the anxious and revives
the faith that feels like it's fading.
It is the word of God that delivers the
addicted and heals the hurting. It is
the word of God that restores the broken
and reforms identity. It is the word of
God that brings dead things back to
life.
The Bible is not just wise advice. It's
not just merely inspirational content or
a history book or a book of spiritual
interesting things.
The Bible is the living voice of the
living God. It is alive and active. It
is sharper than a double-edged sword and
can pierce to the deepest parts of our
hearts.
And so, the question isn't, is the Bible
powerful?
The question really is, do we believe
it? Do we believe it is powerful?
Because it is.
Over a span of eight years, the Center
for Bible Engagement conducted a survey
of more than a 100,000 people of who who
followed Jesus and wanted to look at
their spiritual lives. And what they
found was that engaging with the Bible
four or more times a week had a profound
impact on someone's life.
They found that those who read their
Bibles four or more times a week were
30% less likely to be lonely.
They found that those who read their
Bibles four or more times a week were
less likely to engage in negative
behaviors such as pornography or alcohol
abuse or bitterness. and anger. They
also found that someone who read their
Bible four times or more a week was 231%
more likely to disciple someone and 228%
more likely to share their faith.
The Bible is amazing and the Bible needs
to play a part in our mission.
You see, over the last decade or so, we
have watched the church in the UK
decline. We've seen that steady, slow
drop in numbers.
But I also believe we've watched a
decline in confidence in the gospel.
You know, the world around us has
started saying other things and
suggesting other things and we've got
more and more unsure of the gospel.
And we've also seen, I believe, a
decline in the engagement in our Bible
reading.
And I just sit there and go, I wonder if
they're all connected, right? If it
tells us that when you read your Bible
four times or more, you're more likely
to share your faith and have confidence
in the gospel. And then we would see the
increase in the church. We need to make
a choice to actively engage in the word
of God. and four times or more a week.
The study showed, interestingly, that if
you read it once, twice, or even three
times a week, you were just as well off
if you didn't read it at all.
When we go over that halfway mark, it
makes a huge difference. Let's get
reading the Bible. Let's get studying
the scriptures. Philip knew the
scriptures. He knew what he was about to
explain to the Ethiopian. um he knew
what Isaiah meant and how it led to
Jesus, the good news of the gospel.
Interestingly, the quiet revival did
also show that 35% of 18 to 34 year olds
who were churchgoers agreed that their
faith was often undermined when they
thought about or read some parts of the
Bible.
They also found that 34% of churchgoers
agreed that they worried about being
wrong when talking about the Bible. You
see, the Bible is not necessarily an
easy book to read. There are parts of it
that are confusing. There are parts of
it that are frankly concerning, and
there are parts of it that are
completely baffling. And so we need to
grow in our Bible understanding and
knowledge so that we can grow in our
confidence in the Bible. And we do that
firstly by reading it. But secondly, we
also need that space and that time to
talk about it and to wrestle with it
with other people. And that's where
community groups come in. The ability to
gather in a small group and study the
word of God together, ask questions,
wrestle with it. Even the other day we
had a Bible study in our in our Liberty
staff meeting which is online and uh we
were talking about the leper who Jesus
healed and then told Jesus told him
don't go and say anything and then the
Bible tells you that the leper goes off
and says something right I've read that
hundred times and one of the guys said
does that mean the leper was disobedient
then I was like
I've never thought about that. I've
never asked that question before. And I
wrestled with that all week. Like, what
does that mean? And how does that impact
the way I live my life? And and I
couldn't believe that I'd never asked
that question. We need other people in
our in our studying of the Bible so that
a they can ask the questions that we've
never thought to ask and b they can
answer questions that we have been
asking.
We need to study the scriptures together
because the more we understand and have
confidence in the Bible as the living
and active word of God, the more we are
likely to share our faith with others
and therefore see the lost, saved,
saved, freed, freed, discipled, and
discipled, sent.
Also, what's interesting is the Bible is
more intriguing to the world than I
think it's probably ever been in my
lifetime. Just the other week, the
newspapers printed stories about the
rise in Bible sales. The Guardian wrote
this. Sales of the Good Book reached a
record high in the UK in 2025,
increasing by 134%
since 2019, the highest since records
began, according to industry research.
Last year, the total sales of Bibles in
the UK reached 6.3
million, which was 3.6 million, up from
2019.
And the quiet revival stats I showed at
the beginning showed that people are
interested in the Bible, particularly
young people.
And I heard this story about another
church where this one young person in
the church had a desire to give out
Bibles. So he and a couple of friends,
they clubbed together, put their money
together, and they bought a hundred
Bibles. And they went out onto the
streets and they started offering them
to people, not forcing them into their
hands, but saying, "Hey, would you like
a Bible?" And those that hundred Bibles
disappeared so quickly that they spoke
to their church pastor and the pastor's
like, "Wow, we've got to get behind
this." And so the pastor of the church
and the church started buying all these
Bibles and they started doing this
weekly sort of Bible evangelism where
they just stand on the street and offer
people a Bible. And in the last 15
months they've given out over 7,000
Bibles.
>> And even recently within one single hour
they gave away over 400.
And like I said this is not them going
take a Bible, take a Bible. This is like
would you like a Bible? and people are
saying yes and taking a Bible and it's
been opening up conversations for them
there and then on the street but it's
also they've seen people coming off the
into church and they've said oh how did
you hear about the church and they're
like I got given a Bible and I want to
know more
there is an intrigue in the Bible right
now and we know that the word of God
changes lives so we need to get the
Bible into people's hands and in order
to do do that we need the final element
and that final element is the human
evangelist
working together with the spirit of God
with the word of God is the human
evangelist. Now the word evangelist
often freaks a lot of people out. You it
often causes people to think of either
one of two things. the the the sort of
shouty person on the street street
corner who's telling you you're gonna go
to hell or the very incredibly gifted
friend who just has a knack for sharing
Jesus with everybody right that's
generally who we think of one of the two
uh but the word evangelist in Greek is
uistases
which really means bringer of good news
and that's derived from u which means uh
good and angelos which means messenger
of good news. Nowhere in that
description does it talk about shouting
on a street corner and nowhere in that
description does it talk about being
gifted.
An evangelist is just anyone who brings
good news.
And as followers of Jesus, we have heard
the good news. We've believed the good
news. And we've been changed by the good
news. the good news that Jesus came down
into our world, into our mess and our
humanity. And he didn't come down here
just to condemn us. He came down here to
rescue us. He took our place on the
cross and took our punishment for our
sin, which was death and separation from
God. And he did this so that we could be
washed clean of our sin. So that we
could return home and know God as our
heavenly father. That is the good news.
And all an evangelist is is someone who
shares this news with someone else.
Someone who is willing to follow the
guiding of the Holy Spirit to engage
with people and to share with them the
word of God and the good news of Jesus.
Romans 10:14 says this, "How are they to
call on the one they have not believed
in? And how are they to believe in the
one they've not heard of? And how are
they to hear without someone preaching
to them? In order for a person to accept
the truth, they must first hear the
truth. And God's desire is that the
truth be told and shared everywhere. In
Acts 18, it's Jesus says this, "But you
will receive power when the Holy Spirit,
which is important, has come upon you,
and you will be my witnesses in
Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria
and to the end of the earth."
In order for a person to accept the
truth, they must first hear the truth.
And God wants that truth proclaimed
everywhere.
Matthew 9:37-38
says this. Then he Jesus said to his
disciples, "The harvest is plentiful,
but the laborers are few.
Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of
the harvest to send out laborers into
his harvest."
The moment of Philillip and the
Ethiopian unic, the field was ripe for
harvest. And Philillip was God's laborer
in the field. This was no coincidence.
It was God's plan from the very
beginning. And Philip was obedient to
that plan. And because of that, he
lived, sent, and saw the lost saved.
The field of London in some ways is ripe
for harvest. Your neighborhood, your
workplace, your gym. There is a new
hunger and a new intrigue and a new
willingness to know more about God. So
we need to take the principles that we
see here in the story of Philillip on
board. We need to be more philillip. We
need to be sensitive to the Holy
Spirit's leading in our life. And we
need to be praying that the spirit would
start encouraging hearts and preparing
hearts to receive the gospel message.
We need to get ourselves stuck in the
word of God so that we have
understanding and confidence to share
the gospel with others. And we need to
be willing and obedient to play our
part, the part that God has called us to
play in this moment in history.
Because the stats are showing that 31%
of non-churchgoers
would attend church if they were invited
by a friend. That's a one in three
chance. That means if you each think of
three friends that aren't churchgoers,
that aren't following Jesus right now
and you invited them, the likelihood is
that one of those three would say yes to
coming to church with you. But the
important part here is the invitation.
I think this world is hungry for
something. It's hungry for the truth and
it doesn't know where to find it. Many
people are intrigued. Many people want
to know more. But many won't do a thing
about it unless they are invited.
I want to tell you a story about my best
friend Kate. Um Kate and I, we met at
university. This is us back uh 18 years
ago. Um me and Kate, we loved a fancy
dress party. Every party we went to, we
were like, is it fancy dress? And uh I
think this occasion in particular was a
fancy dress party where we showed up in
fancy dress and no one else did,
but we still had a great time. But um I
asked Kate to write her story down for
you this morning uh so that I could read
it out. Um and this is what she said.
Back in 2008 when I was joining
university, I would never have thought
in a million years that in my very first
week I'd meet a group of Christians
playing rounders just to bring people
together.
If you'd told me then that God would
become central to my life, I would have
laughed.
My understanding of God was incredibly
limited. It was shaped by what I saw
growing up. my mom wearing a cross
necklace and holding it to her mouth
every time we drove over the Humbra
Bridge like a superstition.
Beyond that, God felt distant and
confusing. I spent a lot of my teenage
years angry at him. I shouted at him. I
told him I hated him. I blamed him for
the dysfunction in my family, for the
divorced parents who despised each
other, and for an abusive mom who left
me feeling unlovable and unseen.
For a long time, I believed Christians
were fake. I saw how easy it was to
appear kind and caring on the outside,
while behind closed doors, life was very
different.
When I once opened up to a friend about
the things happening at home, I was
accused of lying because my mom was a
Christian.
That moment silenced me and I didn't
speak about my home life again until I
went to university.
I also went to a Catholic school where
we were expected to go to confession
weekly and tell our priests about our
sins. And I didn't even really know what
a sin was. I just thought that maybe if
I behaved well and didn't cause trouble,
then I must be doing okay. That God
cared more about rules and judgment than
relationship.
But everything began to change when I
met that group of Christians playing
around us at university.
One of them invited me back to her halls
to talk to me about her faith. She asked
if she could buy me a Bible, and she
even let me choose the design, which
completely surprised me because I didn't
realize Bibles came in different colors
and styles.
She encouraged me to start with the
Gospels and told me that I didn't have
to read it in order like a normal book.
She said I could underline verses and
write notes and just meet God in the
pages. And she explained that there were
modern translations. And all of this
felt so freeing. She checked in with me
while I was reading it, not to pressure
me, but to walk alongside me.
And as I read the Bible, something
shifted.
I was struck by the imagery and the
storytelling, but more than that, by how
personal it felt.
God no longer seemed distant and angry.
I began to understand him as kind and
patient and loving, a God who wanted me
to draw near to him.
I felt an overwhelming sense of love
when I read the word, something I had
never really experienced before.
Not long after that, I went to a local
church in Liverpool. And the moment I
walked in, I just cried.
I saw people with their hands raised
worshiping God. And instead of feeling
uncomfortable or scared, I suddenly felt
at home. I felt love, a deep, real, and
undeniable love. And for someone who had
never truly felt loved before, it was
overwhelming.
And in that moment, I knew I couldn't
deny what I was experiencing. I knew God
was real and I knew he was my savior.
That simple act of kindness, of one
friend taking the time to share her
faith put a Bible in my hands changed
everything.
Reading the gospel was the beginning of
my journey.
And now, 18 years later, in 2026, I
serve in my church. I lead a life group.
I'm married to a loving husband who
became a Christian because I invited him
to church. And I'm a mom to two
beautiful girls.
And all of this began because someone
saw a person who needed Jesus and was
brave enough to tell me about him. That
one invitation in 2008 has changed our
generational line. Four lives changed
because of one invite. Thanks, Tash.
Forever grateful for your friendship.
And I love this story because she's my
best friend. But
I played such a small part in that
moment. When I bought that Bible, I did
not realize the impact it was going to
have.
I didn't know if she would actually even
read it. You know that thing? It's like,
"Let me buy you a Bible. It's going to
sit in your cupboard and gather dust on
your bookshelf."
I didn't know she would come to church.
I didn't know that she would give her
life to Jesus.
I knew that it would then lead to a guy
also coming to church and giving his
life to Jesus and them getting married
and serving together in their local
church. I also didn't know in that
moment that Kate
would become one of my best friends
and how influential and supportive and
encouraging she would be in my life.
All of this I did not know.
But what I did was just a few small
actions.
I shared my faith. I gave her a Bible
and I invited her to church.
There is a spike, a very small spike
upwards right now in the trajectory of
church attendance and faith. And if I'm
honest, that is all it could ever be.
And I listened to an interview with the
lady who wrote the report and she said,
"Who knows what's going to become of
it?"
And it could easily return back to the
norm of the decline of Christianity.
And if we sit back and just watch this
moment happen, then that is all it will
ever be. A spike that suddenly randomly
happened in 2024 and 2025.
Instead, there is everything to play
for. Lives, eternities, generations are
at stake here. And we need to help. We
need to step up. We need to be bold and
play our parts so that we can see the
lost saved and the saved, freed, and the
freed, discipled, and the disciples sent
so that they can see more people that
are lost, saved, saved, freed, freed,
discipled, and discipled, sent. That we
would see this small spike become an
upwards trajectory and let that become
the new normal.
How amazing would it be in 10 years time
to think back to this moment in history
when the decline of the church stopped
and we began to see a great awakening
across this city and this nation and
that we would each have stories of how
God used little old me to see lives
transformed in his name.
And so I've got three practical steps
for you today
so that we could turn up the volume on
this quiet revival.
And the first is this. Pray. We need to
be praying church. We need to be praying
for the spirit to move in our families
and our friends and our colleagues lives
who don't know Jesus. That that they
would have miraculous encounters like
those stories I told you. and if not
that they were to be become more and
more receptive to the good news of the
gospel so that when I step in they're
ready to receive it. And we need to pray
for ourselves that we would grow in
boldness that we would grow in
confidence in sharing our faith and that
we would grow in sensitivity to how the
Holy Spirit is leading us to those
around us.
Secondly, we need to invite.
31% would attend a church if they were
invited.
Invite someone to come to church. Invite
someone to come to community group. Next
Sunday, KFC Sunday. This is a great
opportunity to invite someone to church
and for them to get some free Kentucky
Fried Chicken at the same time. It's
like win-win, right? You come get free
chicken, I get to bring you to church
and you can also meet Jesus. You get to
win and win and win with this
experience.
But there's an invite on your seat
and there's loads more at the back.
Piles and piles of them at the back. So
why not invite three friends? Remember,
one in three are likely to say yes. Why
not invite six friends, 10 friends? Like
we print a load of these flyers whenever
we do some sort of event. We print loads
because it's cheaper to buy more than
less.
and they are sitting at the back on that
desk, next step's desk.
And after today,
well, we don't have another Sunday
before KFC Sunday. So, the likelihood is
that next Sunday, we're going to pick
them up and we're going to put them in
the bin.
So, why not take a wad? Just go invite
people. Invite your neighbors. Invite
your colleagues. Put it up in different
places. Just go around the street
inviting people to church. Who knows
what's going to happen? But people are
intrigued about coming to church.
So pray, invite,
and then let's share the word of God.
The Bible can radically transform
someone's life. So let's get it into
their hands.
You should all have been given a Bible.
Um, and this Bible is not for you. If
you need one, please take it. But please
also ask the team for another one. This
Bible is not for you. It's for someone
else. And I encourage you to pray and
ask the Holy Spirit to lead you to give
it to the right person.
At our prayer and worship night on
Thursday, we covered these Bibles in
prayer, believing that these Bibles
would get into the right hands
and that lives would be transformed as a
result.
This Bible has a QR code right at the
front of it that we've we've stuck in
that takes them to a page where they can
learn how to read the Bible. And it also
connects them to other elements of
church and faith and Christianity.
And so we've bought these Bibles. We
bought 70 of them and we want them to
get into 70 hands.
And so I want to just say a couple of
things.
The first is this.
If you are going to take this home
and leave it on your shelf to collect
dust,
please can you just leave it at the back
on your way out?
There's no judgment. If you do not feel
comfortable to give this Bible out to
someone, I'm there's no judgment here.
But I want this Bible that's in your
hand to get into the hand of somebody
who needs it. And so if it's just going
to go in your drawer or go on your
shelf, then please just leave it at the
back and we can give it to someone else
at another time.
Secondly though, the fact that we have
brought you a Bible to give to someone
does not mean that you can only give one
Bible away. This Bible that's in your
hand cost4
the cost of a co the cost of a coffee,
right? Practically.
So, why not? If God's nudging you to
give out a few, just head to the Eden
website and buy a few. And you know
what? The more you buy, the cheaper they
get. It's a good tactic from Eden, I
must say. But why not buy a few? Or why
not put a budget in your monthly budget
that says, "I'm going to buy one Bible
every month for somebody, and I'm going
to pray and ask God every month to give
me somebody who I should give a Bible
to." Or maybe you've got a friend like
Kate and you think, do you know what
would bless them most is if they had a
really pretty Bible. And so I'm going to
sit with them and get them to pick the
design that they would like and I'm
going to spend 20 25 quid on this Bible
because I believing that it's going to
bless them.
Let's get the word of God into people's
hands.
So let's firstly pray. Let's invite and
let's give out the word of God.
And so I want to close this morning by
praying for us. So why don't you stand
and before we go into worship? I'm going
to pray.
Firstly, I want to give anyone an
opportunity who's never made a decision
to follow Jesus to make that decision
today.
Jesus is good news. Jesus came down to
this earth to rescue us and to bring us
back into relationship with our heavenly
father. And if you don't have that, if
you've never said yes to that, or maybe
you said yes a long time ago and and
you've walked away, I'd love to give you
that opportunity today. So, with just
every head bowed and eyes closed, if
that's you this morning, if you want to
say yes to Jesus, why don't you just
raise your hand so I know who I'm
praying with this morning?
Thank you.
Let me pray.
Heavenly Father, we thank you that you
are good news, that your love um is
everlasting and unending, that you have
rescued us from the weight and death of
sin. God, we thank you that we now have
relationship with you.
Help us to walk in that relationship
with you. Help us to learn more about
you and grow in our knowledge of you and
our experience of you. Help us to
experience your love in Jesus' name.
Amen.
But before we go into worship, I want to
pray for these Bibles. So, why don't you
just hold the Bible in your hand?
And I'm going to pray. Heavenly Father,
we thank you for your word, God. I thank
you that your word transforms lives. I
thank you that it has the power to make
the unlovable feel loved. God, I thank
you that your word has the power to
bring healing and freedom uh and and
light to people's lives, God. And so
right now, I just pray over every hand
that is holding a Bible.
I pray for them. I pray that you would
speak to them, that you would drop a
name into their mind of who you would
like them to give that Bible to. I pray
that you would increase their boldness
and their confidence and their courage
so that they can go out and pass that
Bible on to somebody. I pray that you
would give them uh real excitement about
what this could do and a real hope and
faith for how this Bible that's in their
hand could change that person's life.
And God, I pray for every hand that
receives this Bible. God, I pray that
you would start working on their hearts
right now. that your Holy Spirit would
start preparing their hearts for your
good news. That they would be open and
ready to receive the gospel. I pray that
they already sat there wanting a Bible,
God. And I pray that they have got
questions and they want to find answers
and they want to know more about you,
God. And I pray that as they receive
this Bible, God, that they would
suddenly know that you are God, God. And
I pray that they would open it up and
they would start reading it and they
would learn about your love, God, and
your forgiveness and your freedom and
your reconciliation.
And God, I pray that it would lead them
to turn their lives to you. That it
would lead to a complete transformed
life of someone following you and
worshiping you and living for you. God,
we pray that every single Bible in this
room would get into the right hand
And we pray that we would see
transformed lives as a result of these
Bibles.
Jesus, we worship you for who you are.
We're so grateful for all that you have
done for us. And we're so excited for
all that you are doing in us and through
us. Use us, God. We are your vessels.
Come and use us to share your love, to
share your good news with those around
us. And we pray this in Jesus name.
Amen. And amen.